docs/services/image_to_3d.md, before:

# 🖼️ Image-to-3D Service
[![🤗 Hugging Face](https://img.shields.io/badge/🤗-Image_to_3D_Demo-blue)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HorizonRobotics/EmbodiedGen-Image-to-3D)

This service launches a web application to generate physically plausible 3D asset URDF from single input image, offering high-quality support for digital twin systems.

<div class="swiper swiper1" style="max-width: 1000px; margin: 20px auto; border-radius: 12px;">
  <div class="swiper-wrapper">
    <div class="swiper-slide model-card">
      <model-viewer
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HochCC/ShowCase/main/image/astronaut.glb"
        auto-rotate
        camera-controls
        style="display:block; width:100%; height:250px; background-color: #f8f8f8;">
      </model-viewer>
    </div>
    <div class="swiper-slide model-card">
      <model-viewer
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HochCC/ShowCase/main/image/robot_i.glb"
        auto-rotate
        camera-controls
        style="display:block; width:100%; height:250px; background-color: #f8f8f8;">
      </model-viewer>
    </div>
    <div class="swiper-slide model-card">
      <model-viewer
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HochCC/ShowCase/main/image/desk.glb"
        auto-rotate
        camera-controls
        style="display:block; width:100%; height:250px; background-color: #f8f8f8;">
      </model-viewer>
    </div>
    <div class="swiper-slide model-card">
      <model-viewer
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HochCC/ShowCase/main/image/chair.glb"
        auto-rotate
        camera-controls
        style="display:block; width:100%; height:250px; background-color: #f8f8f8;">
      </model-viewer>
    </div>
    <div class="swiper-slide model-card">
      <model-viewer
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HochCC/ShowCase/main/image/desk2.glb"
        auto-rotate
        camera-controls
        style="display:block; width:100%; height:250px; background-color: #f8f8f8;">
      </model-viewer>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="swiper-button-prev"></div>
  <div class="swiper-button-next"></div>
</div>

---

## ☁️ Run the App Service

!!! note "Note"
    Gradio servive is a simplified demonstration. For the full functionality, please refer to [img3d-cli](../tutorials/image_to_3d.md).

Run the image-to-3D generation service locally. Models are automatically downloaded on first run, please be patient.

```sh
# Run in foreground
python apps/image_to_3d.py

# Or run in the background
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 nohup python apps/image_to_3d.py > /dev/null 2>&1 &
```

---

!!! tip "Getting Started"
    - Try it directly online via our [Hugging Face Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HorizonRobotics/EmbodiedGen-Image-to-3D) — no installation required.
    - Explore EmbodiedGen generated sim-ready [Assets Gallery](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HorizonRobotics/EmbodiedGen-Gallery-Explorer).
    - For instructions on using the generated asset in any simulator, see [Any Simulators Tutorial](tutorials/any_simulators.md).

Commit message:

feat(model): Add sam3d model

docs/services/image_to_3d.md, after:

# 🖼️ Image-to-3D Service
[![🤗 Hugging Face](https://img.shields.io/badge/🤗-Image_to_3D_Demo-blue)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HorizonRobotics/EmbodiedGen-Image-to-3D)

This service launches a web application to generate physically plausible 3D asset URDF from single input image, offering high-quality support for digital twin systems.

<div class="swiper swiper1" style="max-width: 1000px; margin: 20px auto; border-radius: 12px;">
  <div class="swiper-wrapper">
    <div class="swiper-slide model-card">
      <model-viewer
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HochCC/ShowCase/main/image/astronaut.glb"
        auto-rotate
        camera-controls
        style="display:block; width:100%; height:250px; background-color: #f8f8f8;">
      </model-viewer>
    </div>
    <div class="swiper-slide model-card">
      <model-viewer
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HochCC/ShowCase/main/image/robot_i.glb"
        auto-rotate
        camera-controls
        style="display:block; width:100%; height:250px; background-color: #f8f8f8;">
      </model-viewer>
    </div>
    <div class="swiper-slide model-card">
      <model-viewer
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HochCC/ShowCase/main/image/desk.glb"
        auto-rotate
        camera-controls
        style="display:block; width:100%; height:250px; background-color: #f8f8f8;">
      </model-viewer>
    </div>
    <div class="swiper-slide model-card">
      <model-viewer
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HochCC/ShowCase/main/image/chair.glb"
        auto-rotate
        camera-controls
        style="display:block; width:100%; height:250px; background-color: #f8f8f8;">
      </model-viewer>
    </div>
    <div class="swiper-slide model-card">
      <model-viewer
        src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HochCC/ShowCase/main/image/desk2.glb"
        auto-rotate
        camera-controls
        style="display:block; width:100%; height:250px; background-color: #f8f8f8;">
      </model-viewer>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="swiper-button-prev"></div>
  <div class="swiper-button-next"></div>
</div>

---

## ☁️ Run the App Service

!!! note "Note"
    Gradio servive is a simplified demonstration. For the full functionality, please refer to [img3d-cli](../tutorials/image_to_3d.md).

Run the image-to-3D generation service locally. Models are automatically downloaded on first run, please be patient.

```sh
# Run in foreground
python apps/image_to_3d.py

# Or run in the background
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 nohup python apps/image_to_3d.py > /dev/null 2>&1 &
```

Support the use of [SAM3D](https://github.com/facebookresearch/sam-3d-objects) or [TRELLIS](https://github.com/microsoft/TRELLIS) as 3D generation model, modify `GRADIO_APP` in `apps/image_to_3d.py` to switch model.

---

!!! tip "Getting Started"
    - Try it directly online via our [Hugging Face Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HorizonRobotics/EmbodiedGen-Image-to-3D) — no installation required.
    - Explore EmbodiedGen generated sim-ready [Assets Gallery](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HorizonRobotics/EmbodiedGen-Gallery-Explorer).
    - For instructions on using the generated asset in any simulator, see [Any Simulators Tutorial](tutorials/any_simulators.md).
